Who uses C# and for what?

History and founders
	During the development of the .NET Framework, the class libraries were originally written using
	a managed code compiler system called Simple Managed C (SMC). 
	In January 1999, Anders Hejlsberg formed a team to build a new language at the time called Cool, 
	which stood for "C-like Object Oriented Language". Microsoft had considered keeping the name "Cool" 
	as the final name of the language, but chose not to do so for trademark reasons. 
	By the time the .NET project was publicly announced at the July 2000 Professional Developers Conference, 
	the language had been renamed C#, and the class libraries and ASP.NET runtime had been ported to C#.

	In interviews and technical papers he has stated that flaws in most major programming languages 
	(e.g. C++, Java, Delphi, and Smalltalk) drove the fundamentals of the Common Language Runtime (CLR),
	which, in turn, drove the design of the C# language itself.

	C# was originally submitted to the ISO subcommittee JTC 1/SC 22 for review, under ISO/IEC 23270:2003,
	was withdrawn and was then approved under ISO/IEC 23270:2006.

	The name "C sharp" was inspired by musical notation where a sharp indicates that the written note should
	be made a semitone higher in pitch.

Features and advantages
	C sharp is a 	multi-paradigm: structured, imperative, object-oriented, event-driven, task-driven, functional,
	generic, reflective, concurrent language developed by Microsoft within its .NET platform.

Specificities
	C# has added several major features to accommodate functional-style programming, culminating in the LINQ extensions 
	released with C# 3.0 and its supporting framework of lambda expressions, extension methods, and anonymous types.
	These features enable C# programmers to use functional programming techniques, such as closures, when it is advantageous
	to their application. The LINQ extensions and the functional imports help developers reduce the amount of "boilerplate"
	code that is included in common tasks like querying a database, parsing an xml file, or searching through a data structure,
	shifting the emphasis onto the actual program logic to help improve readability and maintainability.

List of C sharp software:
	Banshee, an open-source media player.
	Colectica, a suite of programs to manage official statistics and statistical surveys
	Docky, an open-source dock program for Unix-like operating systems such as Linux.
	FlashDevelop, an integrated development environment (IDE) for development of Adobe Flash websites, web applications and desktop applications
	HandBrake, a multithreaded video transcoder software application
	KeePass, a password management application
	Low Orbit Ion Cannon (LOIC), a network stress testing application
	Lphant, a peer-to-peer file sharing client
	MonoDevelop, an open-source integrated development environment forked from SharpDevelop
	NMath, a numerical library from CenterSpace Software
	Open Dental, a practice management software
	OpenRA, a free remake of the classic Command & Conquer game.
	Paint.NET, an open source raster graphics editor program
	Pinta, a bitmap image drawing and editing program
	SharpDevelop, an open source integrated development environment (IDE) for languages: C#, Visual Basic .NET, Boo, F#, IronPython
	Visual Studio, which is written in both C++ and C#.
	Windows Installer XML (WiX), a free software toolset that builds Windows Installer (MSI) packages

