Of the language designers mentioned in the chapter
who has received a Turing Award? What is that?

Turing Award: The ACM A.M. Turing Award is an annual prize given by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)
		      to "an individual selected for contributions of a technical nature made to the computing community".
			  The highest distinction in computer science

1. Charles Babbage		-	 
2. John Backus			For profound, influential, and lasting contributions to the design of practical high-level programming systems,
					    notably through his work on FORTRAN, and for seminal publication of formal procedures for the specification
						of programming languages.				 
3. Ole-Johan Dahl		For ideas fundamental to the emergence of object-oriented programming, through their design of the
					    programming languages Simula I and Simula 67.	 
4. Edsgar Dijkstra		was a principal contributor in the late 1950s to the development of the ALGOL, a high level programming
					    language which has become a model of clarity and mathematical rigor. 
						He is one of the principal proponents of the science and art of programming languages in general,
						and has greatly contributed to our understanding of their structure, representation, and implementation.
						His fifteen years of publications extend from theoretical articles on graph theory to basic manuals,
						expository texts, and philosophical contemplations in the field of programming languages.  
5. Anders Hejlsberg		- 
6. Grace Hopper			- 
7. Jean Ichbiah			-	 
8. Brian Kernighan		-
9. John McCarthy		-	 
10.Doug Mclroy			-			 
11.Peter Naur			For fundamental contributions to programming language design and the definition of ALGOL 60,
				        to compiler design, and to the art and practice of computer programming.	 
12.Kristen Nygaard		For ideas fundamental to the emergence of object-oriented programming, through their design of the
					    programming languages Simula I and Simula 67.			 
13.Dennis Ritchie		For their development of generic operating systems theory and specifically for the 
						implementation of the UNIX operating system. 
15.Alex Stepanov			 
16.Bjarne Stroustrup		 
17.Ken Thompson			For their development of generic operating systems theory and specifically for the
						implementation of the UNIX operating system.				 
18.David Wheeler		 
19.Niklaus Wirth		For developing a sequence of innovative computer languages, EULER, ALGOL-W, MODULA and Pascal.
			 

Total:					 12 awards