THE struggle has been long and arduous. But gazing across the battered 
economies of the rich world it is time to declare that the fight against 
financial chaos and deflation is won. In 2015, the IMF says, for the first
 time since 2007 every advanced economy will expand. Rich-world growth
  should exceed 2% for the first time since 2010 and america's central 
  bank is likely to raise its rock-bottom interest rates.

However, the global economy still faces all manner of hazards, 
from the Greek debt saga to China’s shaky markets. Few economies 
have ever gone as long as a decade without tipping into recession—America’s
 started growing in 2009. Sod’s law decrees that, sooner or later, policymakers
  will face another downturn. The danger is that, having used up their arsenal,
   governments and central banks will not have the ammunition to fight the next
    recession. Paradoxically, reducing that risk requires a willingness to keep
	 policy looser for longer today.


The smoke is clearing
The good news comes mainly from America, which leads the rich-world pack. 
Its unexpected contraction in the first quarter looks like a blip, owing a 
lot to factors like the weather (see article). The most recent data, including 
surging vehicle sales and another round of robust employment figures, show that
 the pace of growth is rebounding. American firms took on 280,000 new workers 
 last month. Bosses are at last having to pay more to find the workers they need.

In other parts of the rich world things are also looking up. In the euro zone 
unemployment is falling and prices are rising again. Britain’s recovery has lost
 a bit of puff, but strong employment growth suggests that expansion will continue.
  Japan roared ahead in the first quarter, growing by 3.9% at an annualised rate.
   A recovery so broad-based and persistent is no fluke.


America's economy: a health check
Inevitably fragilities remain. Europe is deep in debt and dependent on exports.
 Japan cannot get inflation to take hold. Wage growth could quickly dent corporate
  earnings and valuations in America. Emerging economies, which accounted for the
   bulk of growth in the post-crisis years, have seen better days. The economies
    of both Brazil and Russia are expected to shrink this year. Poor trade data
	 suggest that Chinese growth may be slowing faster than the government wishes.

If any of these worries causes a downturn the world will be in a rotten position
 to do much about it. Rarely have so many large economies been so ill-equipped to
  manage a recession, whatever its provenance, as our “wriggle-room” ranking makes
   clear (see article). Rich countries’ average debt-to-GDP ratio has risen by
    about 50% since 2007. In Britain and Spain debt has more than doubled.
	 Nobody knows where the ceiling is, but governments that want to splurge 
	 will have to win over jumpy electorates as well as nervous creditors. 
	 Countries with only tenuous access to bond markets, as in the euro 
	 zone’s periphery, may be unable to launch a big fiscal stimulus.

Monetary policy is yet more cramped. The last time the Federal Reserve 
raised interest rates was in 2006. The Bank of England’s base rate sits
 at 0.5%. Records dating back to the 17th century show that, before 2009,
  it had never fallen below 2%; and futures prices suggest that in early 
  2018 it will still be only around 1.5%. That is healthy compared with t
  he euro area and Japan, where rates in 2018 are expected to remain stuck
   near zero. When central banks face their next recession, in other words
   , they risk having almost no room to boost their economies by cutting in
   terest rates. That would make the next downturn even harder to escape.

The logical answer is to get back to normal as fast as possible. The sooner
 interest rates rise, the sooner central banks will regain the room to cut 
 rates again when trouble comes along. The faster debts are cut, the easier
  it will be for governments to borrow to ward off disaster. Logical, but wrong.


See how much "wriggle room" governments have to respond to economic trouble
Raising rates while wages are flat and inflation is well below the central b
ankers’ target risks pushing economies back to the brink of deflation and p
recipitating the very recession they seek to avoid. When central banks have
 raised rates too early—as the European Central Bank did in 2011—they have 
 done such harm that they have felt compelled to reverse course. Better to
  wait until wage growth is entrenched and inflation is at least back to i
  ts target level. Inflation that is a little too high is a lot less dange
  rous for an economy than premature rate rises are.

Because America’s recovery is strongest, that is where debate about how fast
 to return monetary policy to normal is fiercest. Hawkish voices at the Fed

The best defence
Governments can also do their bit. There has still been shamefully little
 growth-boosting investment in infrastructure. The OECD, a club of mostly 
 rich countries, was right to rap George Osborne, Britain’s finance minis
 ter, on the knuckles for the scale and pace of his proposed public-spend
 ing cuts. Growth is better than austerity as a policy for bringing debts
  under control. Governments should instead direct their energies towards 
  overdue reforms to product and labour markets. Open product markets enco
  urage enterprise. The freedom to hire workers under flexible contracts i
  s the best way to keep people out of unemployment. Both reforms make an 
  economy better able to cope with the next shock.

Having fought off the effects of the financial crisis, governments and cen
tral banks are understandably eager to get back to normal. The way to achi
eve their goal is to allow the recovery to gather strength first.